# Network Terms

- **IP Addresses**: an IP address (or Internet Protocol) address can be used as a way of identifying a host on a network for a period of time, where that IP address can then be associated with another device without the IP address changing.
- **MAC Addresses**: Devices on a network will all have a physical network interface, which is a microchip board found on the device's motherboard. This network interface is assigned a unique address at the factory it was built at, called a MAC (Media Access Control ) address. The MAC address is a twelve-character hexadecimal number (a base sixteen numbering system used in computing to represent numbers) split into two's and separated by a colon. These colons are considered separators.
- **Address Resolution Protocol (ARP)** is responsible for finding the MAC (hardware) address related to a specific IP address. It works by broadcasting an ARP query, "Who has this IP address? Tell me." And the response is of the form, "The IP address is at this MAC address."
- **Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)** is a connection-oriented protocol requiring a TCP three-way-handshake to establish a connection. TCP provides reliable data transfer, flow control and congestion control. Higher-level protocols such as HTTP, POP3, IMAP and SMTP use TCP.
- **User Datagram Protocol (UDP)** is a connectionless protocol; UDP does not require a connection to be established. UDP is suitable for protocols that rely on fast queries, such as DNS, and for protocols that prioritise real-time communications, such as audio/video conferencing and broadcast.
- **8.8.8.8** is the primary _IP address for Google's public DNS_. It's a commonly used public DNS server that helps users resolve domain names to IP addresses. You can configure your device's network settings to use 8.8.8.8 as your primary DNS server to utilize Google's DNS service
- **MTU, or Maximum Transmission Unit**, refers to the largest size of data packets that a network interface can transmit without fragmentation. It's a crucial setting in networking, dictating the maximum amount of data that can be sent in a single transmission. MTU is usually associated with the Ethernet protocol, where a _1500-byte packet_ is the largest allowed.
- **firewall**: A security tool, hardware or software that is used to filter network traffic by stopping unauthorized incoming and outgoing traffic.
- **Network Backbone**: is the _primary infrastructure that interconnects smaller networks_ such as local area networks (LANs) or subnetworks within a larger network, like a campus, enterprise, or the Internet itself.
- **NAT-box** is a network device (usually a router or firewall) that allows multiple _private-network devices_ to share a _single public IP_ address by translating their private IP addresses into a public one.
- **ISP router** is the internet router provided by your Internet Service Provider (ISP) when you sign up for home internet service.
